Now that we've explored some types of syncs in Spark,
the concept of saving and maintaining
intermediary information to these syncs is called checkpointing.
Checkpointing is important in structure streaming because processing incoming records
depends on the previously processed records in stateful stream processing,
and we would like to save the state of these incoming records in some things.
Spark Streaming achieves fault tolerance by using checkpointing.
It's a process to truncate RDD lineage.
Meaning it saves the application state to a reliable storage like Hadoop file system.
There are two types of data with checkpoint,
which are metadata and data.
Metadata is data about data, for example,
some metrics size of data,
when the data came in, these metrics.
Data is the actual content of the data.
The persisting functionality in Spark Core
fulfill some of the same purposes as checkpointing.
But let's let's discuss some important differences between them.
When we persist RDD with disk only storage level,
the RDD gets saved in that location and then
doesn't have to be recomputed to reach that point.
Basically, Spark remembers the lineage of RDD and then when the job run is complete,
the cache is cleared.
Checkpointing actually deletes the lineage and on the completion of the job run,
the cache is now deleted.
We can actually visualize this in the console.
We're going to import the storage level.
This library has the disk only feature.
I'm going to create a temporary RDD,
not temporary but just a fake one and I'm going to
take just the ones that are divisible by four maybe,
I'm going to do reduceByKey,
so we have generated an RDD.
I'm going to create a DataFrame and I'm
going to take the ones that are greater than three.
RDD mapValues that are greater than three.
I am going to persist this DataFrame to disk only.
Storage disk only.
All right, so now I have a MapPartition and mapValues.
There's a feature called toDebugString to take a look at what's really going on.
So I'm going to do df.toDebugString.
I do this, this actually shows the parallelized collection and then I had a MapPartition,
which was this map and there's a shuffled RDD which is
a reduceByKey and there's another mapValues, so this one right here.
If I do df.count,
which is a action and I get a long.
If I do another df.toDebugString.
Now, this actually showed there is a cached partition,
a memory size in the shuffled RDD and the MapPartition.
So it shows all the way up to before the count but it also shows that it was cached.
Now let's take a look at with the same RDD that we'd parallelized,
let's take a look at what happens when we do a checkpointing.
So we're going do the same thing,
but with a create a new DataFrame and we're going to do
another mapValues greater than three and then I'm going to set a checkpoint directory.
I'm going to do temporary folder point example.
You need to set a checkpoint directory to actually checkpoint.
I'm going to do a df.toDebugString.
So we have seen this before;
ParallelizedCollection MapPartition,
reduceByKey, and the mapValues, so all the way up here.
If I do the same thing,
before I do the.count, let's do checkpoint.
So now I'm actually going to checkpoint this DataFrame and then I do a
df2.count which will give me the same result.
But if I do df.toDebugString,
now this actually returns a reliable checkpoint RDD.
Before it showed a cached partition,
but it's lost all the lineage from parallelized,
MapPartition to reduceByKey, but now
it's just showing the reliable checkpoint in the MapPartition at mapValues.
We just saw the differences between persisting and checkpointing.
Next, we will discuss the differences between stateful and stateless stream processing,
and then we'll talk about why checkpointing matters.